[music]
>> Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Wiesenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Alloway.
>> Tracy, recording this June 24th
at noon, Brent crude is below $74 a
barrel.
>> I know. It's crazy to look back when the
Iran war started. I don't think we ever
got above like $120 a barrel on Brent
despite this scenario, the closure of
the Strait of Hormuz, the thing that oil
analysts had talked about as a tail risk
event for years and years and years
actually happening.
>> No, it is it is really remarkable. We
had two peaks. There was one right at
the end of March and then one right at
the end of April basically and the
closing price right around just a little
bit shy of 120 both of those days. But
no, absolutely not like some of the
doomsday scenarios at least for now, you
know, their crossings are picking up. I
guess negotiations are ongoing of some
sort. But no, they clearly the doomsday
scenarios about how this couldn't even
stay closed for a few weeks let alone
two or three months did not pan out.
>> I see a lot of people on Twitter/X
making fun of the barrel counters right
now.
>> Yes.
>> Which I
I have a lot of sympathy for barrel
counters because I like I like my
analysis to be grounded in facts and
numbers. But there is clearly a
disconnect here between what happened
with the price and some of those
predictions.
>> Well, maybe we learned something. Maybe
we learned something about the oil
market in the last few months. We've
gotten a lot of requests for this
episode and so we are going to talk to
someone that we talked to right at the
very beginning of the war. Someone we've
talked to a lot. Someone whose oil
analysis we greatly respect even if this
particular incident did not perhaps pan
out the way he and other many others,
almost all the others expected. We're
going to be speaking with Rory Johnston.
He's the founder of the commodity
context newsletter, and maybe he learned
something about the oil market in the
last few months. So, Rory, thank you so
much by fan request and our request
because we want to learn something, too.
By fan request, welcome back to the
podcast.
>> Thanks for having me, guys.
>> Let's just start with like what was
let's before let's start with like okay,
early March. Remind listeners what this
sort of your take and the sort of
general wisdom was, you know, first
couple of weeks of March about how long
this could persist and why this
Remind people why the Strait of Hormuz
was seen as sort of the choke point
among choke points when it comes to oil.
>> Yeah, so let's transport ourselves back
for our last conversation.
>> We need to get the time travel machine
music, right?
>> [laughter]
>> They can add that. So, yeah, the reason
that it was such a massive deal and
still remains, I would say. I mean,
while we have avoided the doomsday
prophecies, it is still the by far the
largest supply disruption in the
market's history. And for the numbers,
for the barrel counting, for Tracy, the
total flow through Hormuz prior to the
war was roughly 20 million barrels a
day. Now, we knew we weren't going to
lose all of that because we knew that we
had some offsets. You know, the Saudi
East-West pipeline, the Emirati pipeline
to Fujairah on the Gulf of Oman. But
overall, net netting for all of those
known rerouting options, which again, at
the time we didn't know if they would
fully work cuz they'd never been fully
tested. But they did work, thankfully.
But even netting of those, we were still
down roughly 13 million barrels a day of
Gulf oil production excluding Iran that
had been forcibly shut in through the
duration of this crisis and is only now
beginning to pick back up again.
That's a lot of oil. That's 13 plus
percent of the global supply. And the
reason we thought that prices were going
to hit 150 or even $200 a barrel was
that when you have a supply shock that
large without any more offsets, you end
up at demand destructive pricing really,
really fast. And to destroy that level,
the depth of that demand, we had never
seen that before, but $200 a barrel
seemed like the reasonable
price at which that would happen. Now,
thankfully, we did not have to destroy
that demand. And what we will talk about
shortly, I'm sure, is all the ways in
which the system adapted and and flexed.
And I think we saw this most notably,
above all, in China.
>> Yeah. Okay, well, why don't we just dive
into it? Give us your overview on what
happened and why we didn't actually hit
$200 a barrel.
>> Yeah, so I'd say the two biggest things,
one on the fundamentals, on the barrel
counting side, was China. We always knew
that China had huge stockpiles of oil,
but we didn't know how they were going
to react to this crisis. And what we've
seen through this crisis is that Chinese
oil imports, crude oil imports into
China, the world's largest crude oil
importer, fell by upwards of 5 million
barrels a day between their you know,
the three-month average prior to the war
through to June. Now, we're not quite
done this month, but that's roughly
where we're trending for June so far.
That 5 million barrels a day was upwards
of half of the total spot market supply
hit to Asia.
And that allowed a lot of those other
Asian importers to basically not have
the competition that they would have had
for the barrels they were importing. So,
the countries that were hit hardest by
this crisis and the governments that
were most panicked, governments in South
Korea, Australia, Japan, Taiwan, etc.,
there was a period where like the Prime
Minister of Australia was coming out
daily and announcing the Australian
government's successful acquisition of a
cargo of diesel. Like, it felt very
COVID-y. Now,
those importers saw imports collapse
through March and April, but through May
and into June, they actually recovered
basically to pre-war levels. And the
largest facilitator of that was the fact
that China was not competing for any of
the other barrels, and it then absorbed
so much of the shock itself.
>> Just on China specifically, I have so
many questions already, but do you have
any sense of how much of this was
genuine demand destruction or
substitution in China versus just
releasing from stockpiles?
>> It's a good question, and the firm
answers we do not have 100% certainty as
to what the exact composition of that
swing was. We know the oil going in fell
by 5 to 6 million barrels a day, given
products as well. But in terms of the
actual demand destruction, the thing
that we have seen across China is that
all of the mobility indicators and you
guys are actually in China very
recently. All the mobility indicators
showed no notable decline. The The level
of implied demand destruction that we
see, and importantly here, China does
not publish official demand data. It
also doesn't, very importantly, publish
official inventory data. So we're left
kind of feeling around the shadows. The
implied demand destruction we saw
through this crisis was on par with the
steepest demand destruction implied in
history, and on par on the volume with
the COVID zero demand shock in 2022. But
you guys were in China. I've I have not
seen any reporting that indicates that
level of lockdown. So we start asking
questions, okay, what's going on in the
middle? Also, when you look at
typically, you'd assume that that level
of demand destruction without COVID zero
lockdowns would have had to be driven by
massive price increases. But part of
what also happened in this crisis is
that China had basically throttled the
ability of domestic retail prices
through their normal regulatory
procedures. Prices of petrol in in
Beijing only rose maybe 30% versus the
doubling we saw globally. So again, it
just doesn't track for me that all of
that or even most of that was demand
destruction. So then we go to this this
point about substitution or outright
releases of strategic petroleum
reserves. Now, the one thing we can say
is that the inventories we can see,
these are the floating roof storage
tanks for crude oil, those are still
very very high and roughly where they
stood at the beginning of this crisis.
So, as far as we can tell, they're not
drawing down aggressively on those
stocks, at least not yet.
The caveat there is that we can't see
through those satellite analyses, we
can't see underground storage tank
underground storage caverns and their
proper SPR. They have six storage
caverns at least that we know of about
131 million barrels. The likelihood is
that they have been drawing down those
because the fallen crude oil imports
fell far faster than the decline in
refining run rates. So, again, had to be
made up somewhere. So, we're just kind
of feeling around the shadows for the
Occam's razor here is that they have
been releasing silently additional crude
inventories. But, above and beyond that,
we know that crude crude refining run
rates also fell dramatically, by 3 to 3
and 1/2 million barrels a day.
So, where's the implied demand
destruction? Now,
this is where we either get one of two
things. We either get a very large
release of refined product stocks. Now,
we know that China has large stocks of
refined products like gasoline, diesel,
jet fuel, etc. We have virtually no firm
information on those stock levels or can
track them very closely day-to-day or
week-to-week because unlike crude, they
don't have fluid they don't have
floating roofs. So, we have to kind of
again infer.
Those stockpiles upwards of a billion
barrels, but the implication is that
they're drawing them down very very very
rapidly. The other thing we could have
seen is and and your your colleague
Javier Blas was on this very early, was
on the potential to switch some of the
petrochemical feedstocks from
oil-derived products like naphtha and
LPG towards more gas-based products,
natural gas or even on the extreme
coal-based chemical products. That could
again have a switch on the margin. And
then the other thing that you'll hear is
that like, well, China has massive
penetration of electric vehicles. So,
maybe that was making part of it as
well. The challenge is is that it's not
the sales penetration, the sales
composition that drives fuel demand,
it's the fleet composition. And while
new energy vehicles in China are like
60% of new vehicle sales, the overall
stock of vehicles in China is still 10
to 1 internal combustion engines to EVs.
So, the implication would have to be
that Beijing had this massive fleet of
EVs that were like waiting to roll off
the line, and that just doesn't seem
plausible on the timeline we're talking
about.
>> That is a very important stat to keep in
mind, and I'm I didn't know the exact
numbers, but I do think that's important
because we all Yeah, we talk about the
declining like oil and intensitivity of
the Chinese economy due to growing EV
sales. You know, it's going to take a
while before it really swings in enough
to make a difference. I think, you know,
>> think they have a secret stockpile of
EVs? They have a strategic pork reserve.
>> They just swap out everyone's cars?
>> [laughter]
>> Like everyone gets a free EV for a few
months?
>> you get an Apollo, and you get an
Apollo.
>> You know what's really cool about the
Chinese EVs? Or sorry, the Chinese
automatic driving vehicles? All cars,
whether they're the official like
robo-taxis or when you're in a car that
you push on self-driving mode,
>> Mhm.
>> they have this blue light that shows up.
So, it's not like the typical red light.
And so, you can see every single car on
the road in China that is currently
operating in an autonomous manner and
know if there's a human
>> see.
>> Yeah, it's pretty nice. You know, you
mentioned Tracy at the beginning of the
episode barrel counting. I think one of
the reasons I like we like talking to
Rory is that I do consider you to be a
humble barrel counter because it's so
easy in oil conversation to get tempted
by grand threads about geopolitics,
right? Because it's sort of intertwined.
So, I really do appreciate the humble
barrel counter. But, when we talk about
this sort of like China's willingness to
either draw down stocks, etc. There's
two sort of related questions that I
have. It's like one is
could China just be like have done its
neighbors a solid in the sense that it's
like, you know what? We really do have
quite a big buffer. And we know that
Singapore and Taiwan and Korea really
going to be Japan are going to really be
under strain. So, from like a sort of
soft power goodwill thing, like we don't
really need to be adding. And B, given
that we know and B, given the EV
penetration, even if it's small now,
it's going to grow.
Is the consensus in oil world that the
massive stockpiles in China, do they
exist in the event of like preparation
for a theoretical war, which would be a
very oil-intensive process?
>> Yeah, so let's work in reverse there.
And I think so, back in 2023, I wrote a
piece called Chinese oil demand doubts,
which was about how in 2023 with this
massive growth in Chinese apparent
demand. Again, remember, China doesn't
official doesn't publish official demand
stats. It was so big and China was still
pretty weak coming out of COVID zero at
that point. It didn't seem plausible and
I kind of speculated that maybe they
were building refined product stocks,
which we can't see because of the way we
calculate this stuff. And at the time,
the worry was that it was in
anticipation of a war or an invasion of
Taiwan. At that stage, you had an
increased bellicosity of Beijing, a lot
of saber-rattling, buzzing airspace,
naval drills, etc. So, I think that was
definitely part of it. That was the
thought at the time. Now, what we've
seen is that obviously came in very,
very handy. Now, for much the same
reason, although not getting blockaded
through Malacca, but just the lack of
Hormuz itself, which again was always
part of China's kind of strategic or
perception of strategic precarity of its
of its stockpiles. And but I think to
this point of like like why? This is the
question that like continues I continue
to obsess about because it also kind of
tells you like when they're going to
reenter the market because as we will
talk right now, not only are crude oil
prices collapsing, but we've actually
seen prompt Brent time spreads, the
difference between the first and the
second contract, actually flip into
outright contango today. So I think it's
a particularly auspicious day.
>> We're swimming in oil at least relative
to demand. And I think part of that is
that China just still hasn't stepped
back in as a competitive importer. So to
your point, Joe, this idea that like
maybe Beijing was playing the altruistic
neighbor, which I think is I think one
of the theories I'm holding as well,
which is not only do they want to kind
of be seen as the good neighbor, not
only do they want to be seen as kind of
standing up and defending its neighbors
when very clearly in their in their
telling Washington has abandoned you and
kind of stuck you with this massive
energy crisis.
>> Yeah.
>> The challenge I think with that I want
to I think also if China is trying to
pivot away from the US market, its only
other market options are Asia or Europe
really in terms of like a sizable
sources of demand. So it's not its
interest to see those economies kind of
collapse while North America remains
relatively insulated given domestic
supplies. I think the only challenge
with this theory is that if that was
true, I would have expected China to say
something about it. And the fact is is
that so far we have seen we've heard
virtually nothing from Beijing or any of
the regulatory authorities that this is
happening, why it's happening, or the
scale of what we're talking about.
The other I think more nefarious option
and and you were just talking about how
I'm a humble barrel counter and I don't
like to go grand strategy, but I think
there is like the put my tin foil hat on
for a second. Why would China do this
and not talk about it? The other option
I still think this is
less likely because it seems very
nefarious, but we had the Trump
administration visiting Beijing a couple
months ago. At the time it seemed like
nothing much came out of those meetings.
It seemed pretty lukewarm at best. But I
think there's a chance that you saw some
kind of discussion between the Trump
administration and Beijing over like
help us out with this and we will do
something for you in the future. Now,
what could that be? One of the things
that was happening at the time was with
all of the military equipment destroyed
in the Middle East from the Iranian
attacks, lots of advanced radar systems,
anti-anti-ship, anti-aircraft missiles,
etc., etc.
Washington began migrating all of its
kit that had been in Asia back over to
the Middle East. So, maybe this is part
of this broader kind of Dunro doctrine
that Trump sees himself as pulling out
of Asia and maybe someone somewhere made
that point and said like if you help us,
we'll keep this going.
That said, I again, I don't think any of
this perfectly fits and I think the easy
answer is that it remains a mystery as
to why China is doing this. The only
problem is is that given that we still
don't understand why China did this or
even to that degree how exactly they
managed to pull it off, it makes it
difficult to handicap when they're going
to enter back into the market because
obviously a 5 million barrel a day swing
is massive in this context and right
now, I think part of the reason that
that crude prices and time spreads are
back into contango today is that we have
this rising surge of exiting transits
out of Hormuz that are running up
against a still relatively weak import
[music] market driven first and foremost
by China.
>> [music]
[music]
>> So, China isn't the only one that's been
releasing from stockpiles. So, the US
also has a strategic petroleum reserve
and I think we were getting pretty close
to the operational minimum on that
thing. And Jeff Currie, who's been on
the podcast a number of times, he had a
really good line basically saying this
is not supply responding to price, it's
inventory responding to price and
inventory, unlike production,
has a floor.
So, devil's advocate question, but like
if this kept going, if the Hormuz shuts
again, or if it hadn't been opened in
recent days, and I guess I should
mention we're recording this on June
24th,
could that inventory response have gone
away and could we see prices shoot up?
>> Absolutely. You know, when we started
this crisis, we had been in a surplus in
the oil market for upwards of a year. We
had built substantial stockpiles, both
commercial and strategic. Obviously, in
the case of China, strategic.
We were as buffered as humanly possible
to weather this shock. I still didn't
think it was enough at the time, and
that proved out to be thankfully
incorrect. But, now we have drawn down
massive volumes of oil. To put in
perspective, the that 13 million barrels
a day of Middle Eastern production has
been shut in. The cumulative volume of
that to date is roughly 1.3 billion
barrels. Like, we're talking massive,
massive gobs of oil. The collective IEA
SPR release at its upper end is pegged
at about 400 million barrels. The
cumulative reduction in Chinese imports
over this period, again, relative to 3
months prior to the war, is between 4
and 500 million. So, at least on that
basis alone, China swung as much and
likely more than the collective IEA
member states.
And what I will say about SPRs, in my
modeling, in my mental model, I think
about SPRs not as inventory per se, but
as [snorts] as discretionary supply and
demand. That when you think about the
effect of inventories on prices, and I
think they are the primary thing that
drives prices and perceptions of
scarcity. It's mainly the commercial
kind of merchant inventories that catch
the residual, the remaining surplus or
deficit after all said and done that
drives that kind of marginal pricing
influence. But an SPR release as an
example manifests in the market as new
supply, not new production, but new
supply that wasn't available before. And
we're actually seeing another stock or
strategic stock release of that kind in
a way right now in Hormuz itself. We've
had for this whole period we've had well
over 100 million barrels of oil trapped
in Hormuz. These are the ships that have
been trapped and able unable to escape.
Those are the ships that we're seeing
rise very quickly in terms of their exit
pace out of Hormuz again.
But because that is the stockpile, the
floating oil available in Hormuz is
drawing down faster than it is being
replenished with new loadings, the pace
that we're seeing come out of Hormuz
right now also is inherently
unsustainable in itself represent
some kind of stockpile release from a
stockpile that was not accessible to the
market in the Gulf to now a stockpile
that is accessible to the market in the
broader market in the broader world. But
that's right now what's running up
against the lack of Chinese import
demand.
>> First of all, I have a very short
question. At the start of the year Brent
was around 60 and on the eve of the war
it was 70. Just real quickly, would you
say a a non-trivial amount of that $10
barrel increase was I mean, people were
talking about the risk of war all year.
Would you say at least some of that was
driven by war premium already rising
before the initial strikes?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> and I think part of that too, again,
remember that the oil market was
exceptionally weak
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> prior to this. Now flat price is rising
because as you noted, I think there was
this kind of precautionary kind of
geopolitical premium being built in. But
on the eve of the war, the last week
before the war, we saw prompt Brent also
dipping into contango. That was your
sign that we had too much supply.
>> Yeah. I think that that was exactly what
happened.
>> So, right now oil is it like again just
below 74 and like 70 on the eve of the
war. No not necessarily a reason to
think that that's a floor given what we
know about the world swimming in oil.
So, maybe it could even go lower. All
right, I'm going to try and do something
that's like a very like we're all doing
like self-criticism here theme of the
day. So, we're going to do like a sort
of double counterfactual question. So,
if I had been a smarter interviewer in
March of 2026 which feels like a long
time ago. You know, I mean I think I
probably asked you, you know, it's like
okay it's like well, what about that
pipeline that Saudi Arabia has gone on?
And I might have said, well, what about
the role of SPRs? Or maybe even I might
have asked something like what about
lowering sanctions on Russian oil etc. I
did not ask
Rory, China is importing so much more
oil than it needs to operate its economy
day-to-day. So, if I had asked you and
so this is going to force you to put
yourself in early March mind. So, let's
imagine it's early March and I say,
Rory, but can't China just massively
reduce its imports? They don't use that
much oil. It's a bunch of EVs. What
would Rory in March 10th or whatever
2026, how would you have thought then if
I had proposed that as a possible way
out of this crisis?
>> I like this game. Okay. So, I think that
what I would have said at the time is
>> Yeah.
>> we knew we were going to get I you know,
IEA member states to do strategic
releases.
We probably were also going to get some
kind of or at least at the time the
thought would have that we might have
get some kind of Chinese release. Or at
least they would have stopped stopped
stockpiling.
But I still at the time I would have
found it very implausible that they
reduced imports by 5 million barrels a
day. I think it's in terms of the scale.
I think that yes, there could have been
a little bit of reduction there. But
even in hindsight it's still very, very
surprising the scale of reduction we
saw. The other thing I think is that
the other question that I, you know, if
I was to go back and kind of challenge
my own challenge myself, I'll I'll I'll
do the meta meta here. I would say that
okay, we had this big surplus
beforehand.
Everything looked very very bearish.
This was thought to be a temporary shock
at the time and is inherently temporary
cuz we all thought it wasn't going to be
sustainable. The challenge is is that
when we think about fair value in the
market, we think about the relationship
between inventories and prices, part of
what we've historically seen is that
when inventories get really low and
prices get really high, the outlook for
future balances is also pretty
precarious. But what we see in this
crisis is that going in, we were
oversupplied, the future was looking
even more oversupplied.
>> [snorts]
>> So when you saw inventories drawing down
towards tank bottoms, yes, if we hit
tank bottoms and we actually like hit
that acute reckoning where you had to
destroy demand cuz there's literally
nothing left, then yeah, you would could
have gotten this massive spike.
But in terms of the market's wariness or
concern about those lower levels, you
could make an argument that well, it
doesn't really matter if they go low
because we know they're going to get
swollen again next year as soon as this
is open. And I think that that's one
thing that I may have misappreciated at
the time, even if I went into this if I
went into this crisis bearish before
flipping bullish during and you know,
after Hormuz was closed, I still thought
that Hormuz was such a larger kind of
shock to the system that even going in
with a 3 million barrel a day surplus, a
13 million barrel a day loss of
production was still going to put you in
an extraordinarily tight position.
But again, I think that that's part of
what I may have misconsidered. I think
the one final thing I'll say and the one
thing I haven't mentioned so far I think
we should is the job open. Is the fact
that when I talk to traders, the one
thing I heard time and time and time
again is that and these are like these
are prop kind of oil and products
traders. They have their own models that
show them fair value. They keep saying
like all their models say this is a
raging buy, but they got so blown out
repeatedly in that kind of March and
April period. All their risk management
kind of limits have been throttled down
by 90%. That there was this general the
quote was everyone's bullish but no
one's buying.
And I think one thing I also deeply
misappreciated going into this crisis
was the potential power
of Trump himself, more broadly Trump
administration, to inject so much
downside volatility that it kind of
arrested the normal melt-up process. And
I think that
if we had just had job owning, I don't
think it would have been enough. If we
just had China import contraction, I
don't think it would have been enough to
arrest that melt-up that we saw through
March and April. But I think the
combination of them proved to be
especially potent that you had you kept
resetting the clock and all the while
markets kept loosening because of
China's kind of pull back on imports. So
I think the combination of them proved
to be way more powerful than I have ever
expected and I think going forward has
really shown the degree to which the
market
the oil market is much more resilient,
at least in this kind of condition, to a
big shock like that in a way that I just
hadn't appreciated at the time.
>> Can I just ask on the inventories and
strategic reserves? So one of the
bullish arguments I've seen, and there
are still some oil bulls out there,
but they say well, stockpiles are low
now, so people are going to have to fill
them up, right? And you're going to get
like maybe structural
structurally higher demand for oil for
the next couple years or so. Is that a
theory that you buy into? People need to
refill their oil tanks.
>> Yes and no. And I think again it goes to
that split between how I think about
strategic and commercial inventories
differently or strategic stocks and
commercial inventories differently. I
think that yes, there will be an impetus
to I say refill the SPR in the United
States, refill the SPR in Japan,
countries that didn't have SPRs going
into this that all of a sudden
wished they had them, like India. You've
seen a lot of examples of countries
building up. Adnoc, the Emirati national
oil producer, has now made plans for a
50 million barrel strategic commercial
strategic stock in India coming out of
this. So, I think that will structurally
undergird demand for the next year or
two, or maybe even three. But, I don't
think that that demand is going to
manifest as long as the market is tight.
So, you need to get back to a stage
where the market is looser, otherwise
you're just kind of retightening the
market through SPR rebuilds.
I think on the commercial stock, I think
that is a situation where you kind of
need a surplus in order to rebuild those
stockpiles in the first place. So, I do
think that right now we are deeply
underwater on most global kind of
trackable commercial stockpiles. And I
think we need a period of surplus in
order to get us back up to normal
levels. Little and but we probably don't
need to get back to where we were, say,
at the beginning of the crisis where we
had abnormally high levels of
inventories.
>> That was fantastic. By the way, this
reminds me, you know what an episode I
really want to do? And I know it's been
requested actually by a listener. We
should do an episode about the $20
Dangote Petroleum Refinery that opened
recently in Lagos, Nigeria. So, this
incredible engineering feat, one of the
most important refineries in the world
right now. Hasn't been open very long.
Anyway, I was only reminded by that
because of your point about maybe more
countries are going to think about
having SPRs in the first place. Rory
Johnson, thank you so much for coming
on. Really appreciate you,
you know, willing to talk about a
an incorrect call. Appreciate your
candor and coming back on Odd Lots.
>> Thanks for having me, guys.
>> [music]
>> Thanks, Rory.
>> Thanks, Rory. that was great.
>> We all learned something.
>> Yeah, we all learned something.
Me me most of all.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Tracy, I think I thought there were a
lot of interesting moving parts. I liked
his point about the sort of intersection
between the Chinese import reduction
>> [clears throat]
>> and the jaw boning, which at the time I
didn't put a ton of weight on it because
I was like the barrel math is the barrel
math.
>> Yeah.
>> But if it did, as he put it, like change
the behavior of traders who might have
that point about their risk limits, but
that's interesting.
>> That was really interesting. And also,
if you remember back in March sort of
April, there was a lot of discussion of
the disconnect between the physical
market, where like you couldn't get
barrels versus the actual financial
market, which like wasn't showing that
big price increase.
>> a lot of threads that I didn't totally
understand, but there was it was a
really weird time in the markets, and it
was absolutely true that at least for
several weeks there were all those
headlines about like oh, in the
Philippines you can only drive to work 2
days a week or whatever, and so it was
like a real crisis. It was not the
headline price crude barrel price never
got to 200 or even 150, but it was like
deep deep stress.
>> Yeah. That's the thing, right? It's like
the tension between people not being
able to get oil and the prices actually
not shooting up that much. But also, I
think the big question that we're all
left with is
what's China thinking? Like why did they
do it, right?
>> We don't really know, and then just in
terms of I guess the short to medium
trader question, will and when will they
re-enter the market in the same levels
that they were pre-war is like a really
interesting question for people to watch
currently.
>> I would love to see one of China's like
oil caverns.
>> Oh, that would be good. Well,
>> Yeah, that would be good.
>> Let's do it. Let's do a road trip.
>> [laughter]
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at The Stalwart. Follow our guest
Rory Johnston at Rory_Johnston.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman Dash O'Bennett at Dash Kill
Brooks at Kill Brooks Kevin Lozano at
Kevin Lloyd Lozano. [music] And for more
Odd Lots content go to
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. You can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
>> And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
[music] it when we follow up on wrong
calls, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music] And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
[music] ad-free. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcasts and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
>> [music]